Blog post for Bazel 2.1 (#216)
bazelbuild/bazel-blog: _posts/2020-02-06-bazel-2.1.md

---
layout: posts
title: "Bazel 1.1"
authors:
  - laurentlb
---

[Bazel 2.1](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/releases/tag/2.1.0) has just been released.

> Bazel 2.1 is intended to be backward-compatible with Bazel 2.0. However it contains a single incompatible change that was deemed a bug fix and thus eligible for inclusion. We haven’t found any code broken by this change, but please report if it causes any burden to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bazel 2.1 is intended to be backward-compatible with Bazel 2.0. However it contains a single incompatible change that was deemed a bug fix and thus eligible for inclusion. We haven’t found any code broken by this change, but [please report](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/issues/new) if it causes any burden to you.
```

## Incompatible change

*   The following attributes of `CcToolchainProvider`, which formerly were
    accessible both as fields `x.f` and as methods `x.f()`, are now only fields:
    `ld_executable`, `objcopy_executable`, `compiler_executable`,
    `preprocessor_executable`, `nm_executable`, `objdump_executable`,
    `ar_executable`, `strip_executable`.

## Starlark

*   `x.f()` is now equivalent to `y=x.f; y()`. That is, `x.f` should return the
    same attribute value regardless of whether it is accessed as a field or
    called like a method. Any arguments to the call are evaluated after the
    `x.f` operation.
*   Keyword-only arguments are now allowed:
```python
def foo(a, *, k): pass
def foo(a, *b, k): pass
foo(5, k = 6) # k can be specified only by keyword
```

> *   Adds [`ctx.target_platform_has_constraint`](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/skylark/lib/ctx.html#target_platform_has_constraint) to allow rules to check the target platform's constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Added the [`ctx.target_platform_has_constraint`] boolean field (https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/skylark/lib/ctx.html#target_platform_has_constraint) to allow rules to check the target platform's constraints.
```

## bazelignore

*   Similar to the
    [.bazelignore](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/guide.html#.bazelignore)
    in the main repository, a .bazelignore file in external repository will
    cause the specified directories to be ignored by Bazel. Bazel won't try to
    identify any packages under the directories, but the files can still be
    referenced in other BUILD files.

> *   bazelignore files now support line comments, e.g. `# this is a comment`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   .bazelignore files now support line comments, e.g. `# this is a comment`.
```

## Android

> *   Experimental support for d8 merger is now available for use using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Added experimental support for merging dex files with D8 with
```

    `--define=android_dexmerger_tool=d8_dexmerger`.

> *   Add desugaring support for `RoleManager#addRoleHolderAsUser`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Added desugaring support for `RoleManager#addRoleHolderAsUser`.
```

Author: Serge's recommendation was to use present tense (https://www.bazel.build/release-notes.html#guidelines).

## Other changes

> *   Total critical path runtime will not be longer than total execution runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Fixed an issue with build performance profiles where the total critical path runtime will not be longer than total execution runtime.
```

> *   A new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Added a new 
```

    [`BuildEventProtocol`](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/build-event-protocol.html)

>     message is added for listing the convenience symlinks that get created in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    message for listing the convenience symlinks created in
```

>     the workspace (such as `bazel-out`). It is enabled by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the workspace (such as `bazel-out`). Enable with the
```

>     `--experimental_convenience_symlinks_bep_event`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `--experimental_convenience_symlinks_bep_event` flag.
```

> *   `cquery 'somepath` returns more reliable results when the dep has a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   `cquery 'somepath(...)'` returns more reliable results when the dependency has a
```

---
layout: posts

> title: "Bazel 1.1"

Author: Good catch, thanks :)
